---
layout: "post"
title: "Automating the Appeal Map Process"
date:   2020-10-16 14:38:09 -0600
categories: Appeal-Map
permalink: /:categories
---

For valuation purposes, Colorado is legally mandated to only use market sales prices to value property. Therefore, the office relies on comparable sales to establish value. When an owner disagrees with the value, they can appeal. The Boulder County Assessor's office often has many appeals that are escalated to the County Board of Equalization. This requires a map of the subject and comparable properties. This process used to take 30 minutes per map and in 2019 there were approximately 600 maps that needed to be made. By automating this process, I took a 30 minute process and turned it into a 2 minute one.

<b>Methods</b><br>
This ArcPy code is designed to automate the map creation process for the County Assessor's Office. It was developed using ArcMap 10.5. This code also assumes the individual knows how to create a toolbox in ArcGIS. If help is needed to create a toolbox see: <https://desktop.arcgis.com/en/arcmap/10.3/analyze/managing-tools-and-toolboxes/creating-a-custom-toolbox.htm>

The user will set up ahead of time the subject property and the comparable sales that are to be mapped. The process creates two layers, applies symbology that was pre-set up ahead of time, zooms to the selected layers, and changes the title based on the subject input.

This completes the map making process with the exception of creating annotation and cleaning up the scale bar.

The code is found <a href="https://github.com/tkravits/CBOE-Map">here</a>
